In this short video, I'll show
you how CrateDB fits seamlessly
into a wider ecosystem of third
party tools and frameworks.
Many of these integrations are
made possible through CrateDB's
adoption of the PostgreSQL
wire protocol.
This is a huge topic, and I'll
only be able to scratch the
surface here.
If you're interested in a
specific integration that's not
mentioned in this video, check
out the associated resources,
which include links to the
relevant parts of the
documentation containing much
more detail.
Let's spend a few minutes
reviewing some of the most
popular tools and integrations.
As CrateDB uses standard SQL to
insert, update, and query data,
it's a natural fit into a wide
ecosystem of tools, frameworks,
and programming languages.
Streaming data can be ingested
and indexed at speed from
message brokers such as Kafka or
Apache Flink, as well as MQTT
brokers including HiveMQ.
CrateDB fits into your workflow
when using platforms such as
Apache Airflow, and of course,
many other tools and platforms
that support Postgres will also
work with CrateDB.
Once stored in CrateDB, data
can be accessed from a wide
variety of tools and frameworks.
These include popular
visualisation tools such as
Grafana, Tableau, and Power BI.
And don't forget that with
drivers and SDKs for all of the
popular programming languages,
you can also easily integrate
CrateDB into your own
applications.
We've spoken about CrateDB's
Postgres compatibility a lot
here, but don't forget that
there's also the HTTP endpoint
that opens up more integration
possibilities, especially for
bulk data ingest.
For the remainder of this video,
I'll show you how to access data
in CrateDB from a few popular
tools that you might already be
familiar with.
CrateDB has its own command
line tool Crash and is also
compatible with the Postgres
psql command line interface.
Sometimes you want to take a
more graphical approach to
managing your databases.
Here I've connected the popular
DBeaver tool to CrateDB and
you can see the data contained
in the taxis table from our
Chicago data set.
If you have a preferred database
management tool that supports
Postgres, you should be able to
use it with CrateDB.
Application developers will be
pleased to know that you can
access data in CrateDB
directly from many popular IDE's.
Here I'm running a query that
summarises data in the taxis
table from a Chicago sample data
set, and I'm doing it right here
inside the popular VS Code IDE
using Microsoft's Postgres
extension.
Grafana is a popular
visualisation and dashboard
creation tool.
You can use Grafana both to
understand the performance of
your CrateDB cluster and to
visualise data stored in the
database.
This dashboard shows a map of
all of the open street light
issues in Chicago using data
from a three_eleven_calls table.
And here's the simple SQL query
that powers it.
You can add data from a CrateDB
cluster to Grafana using
Grafana's Postgres data source
plug in.
And finally, don't forget that
there are drivers and SDK's for
most popular programming
languages.
Several languages have multiple
options depending on your coding
style and the level of
abstraction you're working at.
Here are some examples for
Python, Node.js, Java, .NET, Go,
and PHP.
In this video I only have time
to scratch the surface of what's
possible when integrating CrateDB
with party tools and systems.
Hopefully I've given you a
flavour of what you can do.
For more detail including many more
integrations not covered here,
you should check out the online
documentation and resources
associated with this video.